# 1820&#8211;1859

**1833**: The Philadelphia Female Anti-Slavery Society is founded. Among its founding members are [Charlotte Vandine Forten](/search?q=Charlotte+Vandine+Forten) and several of her daughters. This was the first interracial organization of female abolitionists in the United States, and one of six abolitionist groups the Forten family helped to found and finance. 

**1837**: The Anti-Slavery Convention of American Women, an interracial meeting of women dedicated to ending slavery and racial discrimination, meets in New York City.

**1843**: Isabella Baumfree takes the name [Sojourner Truth](/search?q=Sojourner+Truth) and becomes a traveling speaker, lecturing about the ills of slavery and, later, temperance and women's rights.

**1848**: White suffragists gather at the Seneca Falls Convention. No Black women are invited to attend. Frederick Douglass, believed to be the only Black person in attendance, becomes the first man (Black or white) to publicly call for women's suffrage. (Terborg-Penn, 14)

At the Colored National Convention, one woman makes a speech making a case for women's rights.

**1850**: The first National Women's Rights convention is held in Worcester, Massachusetts. Sojourner Truth and other prominent abolitionists are in attendance. 

**1851**: Sojourner Truth delivers a speech at a women's rights convention in Akron, Ohio, despite attempts by white suffragists to prevent her from speaking. Although this speech is known as the "Ain't I a Woman" speech, Truth likely never used those words. The phrase was attributed to Truth years after the fact by white suffragists. See a comparison of the two speeches here. 

**1852**: Uncle Tom's Cabin by [Harriet Beecher Stowe](/search?q=Harriet+Beecher+Stowe) is published.

**1853**: Sojourner Truth speaks about the ways in which the country's legal system keeps women oppressed at a Broadway Tabernacle meeting in New York City.

**1854**: [Harriet Forten Purvis](/search?q=Harriet+Forten+Purvis) and [Margaretta Forten](/search?q=Margaretta+Forten) play key roles in organizing the Fifth National Woman's Rights Convention in Philadelphia.

**1854**: [Frances Ellen Watkins Harper](/search?q=Frances+Harper) becomes a lecturer for the Maine Anti-Slavery Society. Over the course of the next six years, she travels extensively in the East and Midwest, lecturing about abolition. She earns a national reputation for her oratory and writing. (Gordon, 45)

**1854&#8211;1856**: [Mary Ann Shadd Cary](/search?q=Mary+Ann+Shadd+Cary) edits The Provincial Freeman. She is the first Black woman newspaper editor in North America. In 1854 and 1855, she gives a series of lectures across the U.S. and Canada advocating for abolition and women's rights.

**1858**: [Sarah Remond](/search?q=Sarah+Remond) and her brother Charles speak at the National Woman's Rights Convention in New York City. 

**1859**: Charles Remond declines a nomination to serve on the business committee at the New England Convention of Colored Citizens in Boston, saying that it was time for women to start assuming leadership positions in the group. [Ruth Remond](/search?q=Ruth+Remond) and [Eliza Logan Lawton](/search?q=Eliza+Logan+Lawton) were instead elected to the committee. 
