# 1930&#8211;1959
**1932**: Longtime Republican politician [Bertha Higgins](/search?q=Bertha+Higgins) forms the Colored Independent Political Association of Rhode Island after growing frustrated with the Republican party's inaction on the disenfranchisement of Black voters.

**1935**: According to historian Rosalyn Terborg-Penn, African American women rank lowest on "the economic scale among men and women, Black and white (Terborg-Penn, 165)."

**1936**: In the midst of the Great Depression, Black voter support moves in large numbers from the Republican to the Democratic party in support of Franklin Roosevelt's bid for re-election, even though most remain registered as Republicans.

**1941**: President Franklin D. Roosevelt signs Executive Order 8802, opening government jobs, including those related to national defense, to all Americans, regardless of race, creed, color or national origin. 

**1948**: President Harry Truman issues Executive Order 9981, prohibiting racial discrimination in the U.S. military. 

**1952**: [Charlotta Bass](/search?q=Charlotta+Bass) runs for U.S. vice president as the Progressive Party nominee, becoming the first Black woman to run for national office. 

**1954**: In Brown v. Board of Education, the Supreme Court reverses Plessy v. Ferguson (1898), ruling that separate is inherently unequal. 

**1955**: Montgomery Bus Boycott protesting segregation begins after NAACP activist [Rosa Parks](/search?q=Rosa+Parks) refuses to give up her seat on a city bus to a white man. 

**1956**: Supreme Court rules segregated seating is unconstitutional. 

**1957**: Civil Rights Act of 1957 is passed, allowing federal prosecution of anyone attempting to prevent someone from voting and creating a commission to investigate voter fraud. 
