# 1920&#8211;1929
**August 26, 1920**: The 19th Amendment becomes law, giving women the right to vote. NAWSA disbands and many white women join the new nonpartisan League of Women Voters. However, many Black women in the South continued to face significant obstacles, already put in place by racist white officials to limit Black men's voting rights, to actually casting their ballots. 

Presidential candidate Warren Harding solicits the support of Black women through northern Black women's groups and national Black women's organizations. Black women, including [Lethia C. Fleming](/search?q=Lethia+Fleming), Mary Church Terrell and [Bertha Higgins](/search?q=Bertha+Higgins), are employed by the Republican National Committee to join his campaign on the national, state and local levels. Fleming wrote an open letter to Black women urging them to vote for Harding. He was not, however, endorsed by the NACW, the largest Black women's organization in the United States. Although an endorsement elicited fierce debate, many NACW members chose to withhold support due to the Republican party's failure to take a strong position against lynching. 

Mrs. Edward Washington runs for a seat on the Haddonfield, New Jersey, school board (Terborg-Penn, 148). 

Annie Simms Banks is appointed to Kentucky's Republican convention; she is the first southern Black woman to be selected for a political party convention (Terborg-Penn, 150).

[Mrs. W.L. Preston](/search?q=Mrs+WL+Preston), of Seattle, Washington, unsuccessfully runs for the Washington state senate; she is believed to be the first Black woman to run for a state legislature seat. She runs on an anti-discrimination platform that included equal pay for equal work; child labor reform; increased widow's pensions; and free tuition to state universities for the children of taxpayers (Terborg-Penn, 149). 

[Grace Campbell](/search?q=Grace+Campbell) of New York City runs as a Socialist for a seat in the New York State Assembly (Terborg-Penn, 149).

NAACP branches in Alabama, Georgia, Virginia, West Virginia, Illinois, Kansas, Kentucky, Missouri, Ohio, Oklahoma and New York organize voter education classes for Black women. 

In states like Alabama, Georgia, Maryland, Florida, Tennessee and Texas, where Black women face white opposition to their registration as voters, Colored Women's Leagues are formed to help Black women with the registration process. They had particular success in Baltimore, Savannah, Atlanta, Jacksonville and in the state of Tennessee (Terborg-Penn, 150).

Georgia State Representative Thomas H. Bell predicts that the 19th Amendment would dismantle white supremacy in Georgia because of the votes of Black women. He urges white women to vote to counteract the votes of Black women (Terborg-Penn, 152).

Thirty-two women in Columbia, South Carolina, sue the local registrar who attempted to deny them the ability to register to vote. Efforts to block Black women from voting were also reported in other areas of South Carolina, as well as Virginia and North Carolina.

W.E.B. DuBois warns that the South will try to disenfranchise Black women, and urges them to resist (Terborg-Penn, 152).

The NAACP presents evidence to Congress of discrimination against Black women voters, as part of an unsuccessful effort to pass a bill limiting representation of states who discriminate against women voters (Terborg-Penn, 154).

[Lethia C. Fleming](/search?q=Lethia+Fleming) serves as head of the Republican National Committee's Black Woman's Advisory Committee for the 1920 presidential election. 

**Early 1920s**: A large majority of Black women are disenfranchised in South Carolina (Terborg-Penn, 153).

**1921**: At the annual convention of the League of Women Voters (formerly NAWSA), Black women try to raise the problem of disenfranchisement. Southern white women attempt to block the discussion, and in the end the League refuses to take action. The National Women's Party and Alice Paul also refuse to see the intersections of race and gender playing out in Black women's disfranchisement. Instead, Paul claims disenfranchisement is a race issue and not a women's issue (Terborg-Penn, 155).

**1922**: The NACW recommends that all its chapters work toward enforcement of the 19th Amendment (Terborg-Penn, 156).

**1924**: Republican National Committee hires former NACW president [Hallie Q. Brown](/search?q=Hallie+Brown) as director of its Colored Women's Department to lead a voter drive among northern Black women.

A Rhode Island state organizer says of Calvin Coolidge's 1924 presidential win, "I am sure the work our colored women did during the last campaign helped materially to give the National ticket the large plurality it had in the Nation (Tilly, 207)." 

[Mamie Williams](/search?q=Mamie+Williams) and [Mary Booze](/search?q=Mary+Booze) lead the formation of the National League of Republican Colored Women, independent of the Republican National Committee, to keep pressing the Republican Party to live up to its legacy as the "party of Lincoln" by supporting federal anti-lynching legislation and by enforcing the 13th, 14th and 15th Amendments.

**1926**: The NACW has affiliated clubs in 42 states.

**1927**: Eighty-five members of the National League of Republican Colored Women from 33 states meet in Washington to discuss their place in the Republican party.  

[Nannie Burroughs](/search?q=Nannie+Burroughs) is the one Black representative among 75 women to visit Calvin and Grace Coolidge at the White House. She is invited to address the gathering, saying, "I'm glad to be able to give a touch of color to this meeting. No political party in America is 100 percent American without this touch of color (Gordon, 146)." 

**1928**: Oscar DePriest is elected to the U.S. House of Representatives, becoming the first African-American congressman since Reconstruction. Black women, particularly members of Chicago's Alpha Suffrage Club, play an important role in his victory.

**1929**: Ruth Hanna McCormick, a U.S. congresswoman from Illinois, asks Mary Church Terrell to lead her campaign for the US Senate.