## Harriet Purvis, Jr.
### 1839&#8211;1904
The daughter of prominent abolitionists and equal rights activists Harriet Forten Purvis and Robert Purvis, Harriet Purvis, Jr., known as Hattie, grew up in a household that was at the center of the abolitionist movement in Pennsylvania, as well as a stop on the Underground Railroad. Her parents associated with a variety of well-known social reformers including Susan B. Anthony and Lucretia Mott. She attended the highly progressive Friends Eagleswood School, a coeducational and biracial institution in Perth Amboy, New Jersey, founded by abolitionist Theodore Weld. From a young age, Purvis was active in abolitionist and women's rights work. Considered part of the second generation of American suffragists, she became a member of the [Philadelphia Female Anti-Slavery Society](/search?q=Philadelphia+Female+Anti-Slavery+Society), founded in part by her grandmother, mother and aunts,  in 1866. From 1866 to 1869, she worked with her mother on the group's annual anti-slavery fair to raise funds for the group's abolitionist activities. A committed suffragist, she attended the 1866 National Woman's Rights Convention and became a member of the [American Equal Rights Association](/search?q=American+Equal+Rights+Association) (AERA), a group she served as corresponding and recording secretary until the group ceased operations in 1869. She joined the Pennsylvania Woman's Suffrage Association, serving on its executive committee, and was a delegate to the National Woman's Suffrage Association from 1883 to 1900, as well as the group's  first African-American vice president. She worked closely for much of her life with Susan B. Anthony to advocate for women's rights. Purvis was also active in the temperance movement, joining the [Woman's Christian Temperance Union](/search?q=Woman's+Christian+Temperance+Union) (WCTU) and encouraging Black women to embrace the movement.

* [Sophia Smith Collection: Social Awareness and Reform](https://www.smith.edu/libraries/libs/ssc/atg/socialawareness.html)
* [Alexander Street: Biography of Harriet Hattie Purvis](https://search.alexanderstreet.com/view/work/bibliographic_entity%7Cbibliographic_details%7C3975725/biographical-sketch-harriet-purvis#page/1/mode/1/chapter/bibliographic_entity|bibliographic_details|3975725)
* [Black Women in America: An Historical Encyclopedia](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1449467.Black_Women_in_America). Darlene Clark Hine, Elsa Barkley Brown and Rosalyn Terborg-Penn, editors.